=== PAGE 1 ===
FCBK 0.91
WEMAKEDEVS × AWS · BHARAT BUILDS TOUR · ENVIRONMENTAL HACKS · AIR TRACK
ZIGZAG 0.77
CFCBK 0.64
KilnWatch
FCBK 0.88
FCBK 0.82
Every space, a plan brick kiln checked someone around against can act Delhi, the on found law, and tomorrow.
from
turned into
ZIGZAG 0.71
FCBK 0.93
FCBK 0.90
FCBK 0.79
CFCBK 0.58
ZIGZAG 0.69
FCBK 0.86
FCBK 0.68
FCBK 0.74
Concept, model, agents and platform · October 2026
~8%
of Delhi's PM2.5 traced to brick
kilns in a spring 2024
source-apportionment study
70%
of kilns across five northern states
break at least one siting rule
30.66M
people live within 800 m of a kiln,
the legal minimum distance from
homes
Figures from IIT Gandhinagar, "Space to Policy" (arXiv 2412.04065). Sources are listed at the end of this document.
KilnWatch Satellite kiln detection and compliance for NCR
=== PAGE 2 ===
OVERVIEW
At a glance
KilnWatch is a monitoring and enforcement system for brick kilns around Delhi. It starts from free satellite
imagery, finds every kiln with a computer-vision model, checks each one against central and state siting rules, and
estimates how many people live inside the legal buffer around it.
AI agents turn that registry into work. They plan inspection routes, triage what changed when a new satellite pass
arrives, and explain flagged kilns to residents in plain language. Inspectors make the final call on site. Their verdicts
flow back into the model as new training labels, so the system improves as it is used.
The system runs on AWS end to end. The imagery and population data are AWS open datasets, and the pipeline,
model, agents and apps run on AWS services.
The model finds. Code judges. Agents plan. People decide.
Every layer of KilnWatch follows this split. It keeps every answer traceable to a measurement and a
rule, and it keeps legal judgement with humans.
In this document
01 The idea
Why kilns matter, what the law says, the enforcement gap, and how KilnWatch closes it.
02 The model
The dataset, the detector, the training plan, running it on fresh imagery, and how we measure it.
03 The agents
Three agents, the tools they use, and the guardrails that keep them honest.
04 AWS
Architecture, services, and the open data on AWS that the system is built on.
05 Portal and app
The inspector app, the resident portal, the review console, and the kiln record.
A Sources
Papers, datasets and regulations referenced in this document.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 2
=== PAGE 3 ===
SECTION 01
The idea
Brick kilns are a large and under-counted source of Delhi's air pollution. The rules to control
them exist. What is missing is knowing where every kiln is, which ones break the rules, and
which ones to inspect first.
The problem
Brick kilns are one of the biggest unorganised sources of air pollution in North India. Across the Indo-Gangetic
Plain they contribute an estimated 8 to 14 percent of ambient air pollution. For Delhi specifically,
source-apportionment modelling of the Delhi airshed for March and April 2024 attributed about 8 percent of
PM2.5 to kilns.
Most of these kilns sit outside the city, in the farmland of western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan that rings
the capital. They are small, often seasonal businesses spread across thousands of square kilometres. That makes
them hard to count, hard to inspect and easy to miss.
Kilns in brief
A brick kiln fires moulded clay at high temperature, usually with coal or biomass. Three designs dominate the
region, and each has a distinct footprint when seen from above.
Type From above Why it matters
FCBK
Fixed Chimney Bull's
Trench Kiln
An elongated oval trench with a tall
chimney
The traditional design. Natural draught, incomplete
combustion, heavy soot.
CFCBK
Circular FCBK
The same design laid out as a circle Same emissions profile, different footprint.
Zigzag A rectangular layout where air is
pulled through the brick stack in a
zigzag path
Better combustion and less black carbon, with
about 40 percent fuel savings over FCBK. Required
near polluted cities.
These shapes are large enough to resolve in 10 m satellite imagery, and distinct enough for a model to learn.
Telling whether a kiln exists is easier than telling which type it is, and the system is designed around that
difference.
The enforcement gap
Rules on where kilns may stand and how they must burn already exist, and so do the inspectors. CAQM, the
Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR, runs Operation Clean Air inspection drives, including one
covering industries in Hapur on 16 September 2026. What is missing is targeting.
Research from IIT Gandhinagar found that 70 percent of kilns across five states break at least one distance rule,
and that 30.66 million people live within 800 m of one. No team can visit every kiln. Inspectors need to know
which ones matter most, and they need evidence before they leave the office.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 3
=== PAGE 4 ===
What the law says
Two layers of rules apply. The Environment (Protection) Amendment Rules, 2022 set national siting distances and
a technology mandate. States add their own siting criteria on top. KilnWatch stores each rule as data, with its
threshold and its legal source.
Rule ID Check Threshold Source
C-HAB-800 Distance to habitation 800 m (UP: 1,000 m) Central 2022 rules; UP siting
rules
C-KILN-1K Distance to another kiln 1 km (UP: 800 m) Central 2022 rules; UP siting
rules
C-ORCH-800 Distance to an orchard 800 m Central 2022 rules
UP/HR-SCH-1K Distance to a school 1 km UP and Haryana siting rules
UP-NH-300 Distance to a national highway 300 m UP siting rules
UP-RAIL-200 Distance to a railway line 200 m UP siting rules
C-TECH-10K Within 10 km of a non-attainment
city
Must be zigzag, vertical
shaft or gas
Central 2022 rules
Thresholds as compiled in the Space to Policy study. Each is checked against the gazette text before it is used.
How KilnWatch works
KilnWatch is a loop with five stages. Each stage is owned by the component best suited to it.
INPUT
Scene
Sentinel-2, 10 m,
every 5 days, free
on AWS
ML
Detect
Vision model finds
every kiln as a
rotated box
CODE
Check
Rules engine
measures
distances, cites the
law
AGENTS
Plan
Routes, change
triage,
plain-language
answers
PEOPLE
Verify
Inspector records
the verdict on site
Learn: field verdicts become new training labels
The five stages. The dashed line is the learning loop: every verdict becomes a training label.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 4
=== PAGE 5 ===
Stage Owner Output
Detect Computer-vision model Every kiln as a rotated box, with a type and a confidence score
Check Rules engine (plain code) Violations with measured distances and legal citations, plus people
exposed
Plan AI agents Ranked inspection routes, change alerts, plain-language explanations
Verify Inspector on site Confirmed status, photos and notes
Learn Training loop Verdicts become new labels for the next model version
Two users
KilnWatch has an operator and a beneficiary, and they are different people.
The inspector
A pollution board or CAQM inspector who needs to
know which kilns to visit, why, and in what order, with
evidence in hand before the drive.
The resident
Someone living near a kiln who wants to know whether
it is allowed to be there, how close it is, and what they
can do about it.
What is new here
This project stands on published research. IIT Gandhinagar's Sustainability Lab built SentinelKilnDB, the dataset we
train on, and the Space to Policy study that established the compliance method. Their work is a study: detect once,
analyse, publish.
KilnWatch turns that method into an operating loop for enforcement. It runs on fresh 2026 imagery, checks rules
with citations, plans inspections, records field verdicts, retrains on them, and gives residents a way in. We credit
the dataset and the method openly.
Scope
The first deployment covers the Uttar Pradesh side of NCR: Hapur, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Meerut. The area is
dense with kilns and sits inside the Delhi airshed. The same pipeline extends to any district by changing the area of
interest and adding that state's rules.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 5
=== PAGE 6 ===
SECTION 02
The model
Finding kilns is a computer-vision problem, not a language problem. This section covers the
dataset, the detector, how we train it, how we run it on fresh imagery, and how we measure
whether it works.
The dataset: SentinelKilnDB
SentinelKilnDB was published at NeurIPS 2025 in the Datasets and Benchmarks track by IIT Gandhinagar. It is the
first large, hand-validated benchmark for kiln detection on free Sentinel-2 imagery, which means a model trained
on it can run anywhere Sentinel-2 flies.
Property Value
Imagery Sentinel-2 surface reflectance, RGB (bands B4, B3, B2), 10 m per pixel
Tiles 114,300 tiles of 128 × 128 pixels, each covering 1.28 km × 1.28 km
Labels 97,648 oriented bounding boxes
Classes CFCBK, FCBK, Zigzag
Coverage 62,671 kilns across 2.8 million km² in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan; 42,982 in India
Season September 2023 to February 2024, the kiln firing season
Split Train 71,856 · Validation 23,952 · Test 18,492 images
Formats YOLO-OBB, DOTA, YOLO axis-aligned
Licence CC BY-NC 4.0: non-commercial use with attribution
Where Kaggle, rishabhsnip/sentinelkiln-dataset (about 4 GB)
Why oriented boxes
Kilns sit at every angle. A normal axis-aligned box drawn around a tilted oval includes a lot of empty field, and in
dense clusters it overlaps neighbouring kilns. An oriented bounding box rotates with the object. It gives a tight
footprint, the kiln's orientation and its true area. Area and aspect ratio also help separate an elongated FCBK from
a circular CFCBK or a rectangular zigzag, and the footprint is what the rules engine measures distances from.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 6
=== PAGE 7 ===
The detector
We use YOLO11 with an oriented-box head (YOLO11-OBB) from Ultralytics. It is a one-stage detector: a single
forward pass predicts every box in a tile, which matters when an area of interest is thousands of tiles. It is also the
configuration the dataset authors trained, so our numbers can be compared directly with theirs.
Model (from the SentinelKilnDB
benchmark)
Boxes mAP50, any kiln CFCBK FCBK Zigzag
YOLO11-L OBB Oriented 75.2 58.6 55.4 53.9
RoI Transformer (Swin-T) Oriented 61.7 45.3 43.8 47.5
RT-DETR (ResNet-101) Axis-aligned 87.5 63.0 68.6 64.3
TerraMind (foundation model) Axis-aligned 86.9 69.0 70.5 75.6
Galileo (foundation model) Axis-aligned 86.7 72.0 69.8 72.2
How to read this. mAP50 is average precision when a predicted box counts as correct if it overlaps the true box by
at least half. The first score ignores kiln type; the last three score each type. Scores across box types are not
directly comparable. Two lessons follow. Finding a kiln is reliable, while naming its type is the hard part. And
heavier models score higher, at the cost of speed and the rotated footprint. We start with YOLO11-OBB and keep
RT-DETR as the fallback if recall on new imagery is too low.
Training plan
Run Configuration Purpose
Baseline yolo11s-obb, image size 128, about 20 epochs A fast check that labels, paths and preprocessing
are right
Main yolo11l-obb, image size 128, 60 to 100 epochs,
batch 16
The authors' configuration. The target is to match
their scores.
Upscaled yolo11l-obb, image size 256 Upsampling can help small objects. Kept only if
test mAP improves.
Type head
(optional)
Small classifier on a wider crop around each
detection
Improves FCBK, CFCBK and Zigzag accuracy, the
weakest part
yolo obb train model=yolo11l-obb.pt data=sentinelkiln.yaml imgsz=128 epochs=100 batch=16
Training runs as an Amazon SageMaker training job on a single GPU instance, and the weights are written to S3.
New AWS accounts often start with no GPU quota, so the quota request goes in first. While it is pending, the same
command runs on a free Kaggle GPU with the dataset attached, and the weights are uploaded to S3 afterwards.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 7
=== PAGE 8 ===
Running it on new imagery
A model only works on data that looks like its training data. SentinelKilnDB tiles were built in a specific way, and
inference repeats it exactly. Getting this wrong is the most likely reason a good model performs badly in the field.
# Step What we do Why
1 Select scenes Sentinel-2 L2A over the area, under 1% cloud,
in kiln season
Matches the training distribution
2 Read bands Red, green, blue (B4, B3, B2) at 10 m Same channels in the same order
3 Cut patches 128 × 128 px with a 30 px overlap (stride 98
Same scale; overlap catches kilns on tile edges
px)
4 Normalise Min-max scale each patch and each band to 0
to 255
Same contrast; also cancels offsets between
imagery providers
5 Detect YOLO11-OBB on every patch Boxes, types and confidence scores
6 Merge Rotated non-maximum suppression across
overlaps
One box per kiln
7 Georeference Pixel corners to latitude and longitude via the
scene transform
Kilns as map polygons
def norm(band): # per patch, per band, identical to SentinelKilnDB
return ((band - band.min()) / (band.max() - band.min() + 1e-5) * 255).astype("uint8")
For four districts this is several thousand patches, which runs in minutes on a CPU. Inference does not need a GPU.
How we measure it
Measure What it tells us
Test mAP50 Accuracy on the held-out split, comparable with the published benchmark
Field precision Fifty random detections in our area checked by hand against high-resolution basemaps. Reported
as how many are real kilns.
Change since 2024 Our area overlaps the dataset's labels, so we do not call this accuracy. We use it as change
detection: kilns that appeared, disappeared or changed type between the 2023 to 2024 labels and
October 2026 imagery.
Known limits
Ten-metre pixels miss small kilns. Kiln type is less reliable than presence, so technology violations are labelled as
likely and always need a site check. The model cannot tell whether a kiln is firing; activity detection from thermal
data is an experiment, not a feature. Haze from crop burning in October can degrade scenes, so we use the
clearest date available.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 8
=== PAGE 9 ===
SECTION 03
The agents
Detection produces a registry and the rules engine marks what looks wrong. Neither is the job.
The job is turning thousands of kilns into the right inspection tomorrow morning, keeping the
registry current, and explaining it to the people who live nearby. That work is multi-step,
tool-heavy and full of language. That is where agents belong.
Agents plan, triage and explain. They never decide whether a kiln is illegal. Only an inspector's
verdict changes a kiln's legal status.
How they are built
Each agent is written with the Strands Agents SDK, AWS's open-source agent framework, and calls a model on
Amazon Bedrock. An agent is a model, a system prompt and a set of typed tools. The tools do the real work
against the database. The model decides which tools to call, in what order, and how to present the result.
from strands import Agent, tool
from strands.models.bedrock import BedrockModel
@tool
def search_kilns(district: str, near_school: bool = False) -> list[dict]:
"""Flagged kilns in a district with violations, exposure and evidence links."""
return registry.flagged(district, near_school)
planner = Agent(
model=BedrockModel(model_id=PLANNER_MODEL_ID),
tools=[search_kilns, get_evidence, plan_route, inspection_sheet, queue_for_review],
system_prompt=PLANNER_RULES, # cite kiln_id and rule_id; never say "illegal"
)
Agent 1: Inspection planner
Used by inspectors. A typical request is: "Plan tomorrow in Hapur. Leave the office at 9. Six hours. Schools first."
The agent searches the registry, pulls evidence, orders the stops, and writes a brief for each one.
Tool What it does Access
search_kilns Flagged kilns with violations, exposure and evidence links, filtered by
district and priority
Read
get_evidence Before and after imagery, the rule text and the measured distances for one
Read
kiln
plan_route Visiting order within a time budget, from an Amazon Location Service
distance matrix solved with OR-Tools
Read
inspection_sheet A one-page brief: rules flagged, people exposed, and what to verify on site Read
queue_for_review Adds a note or concern to the human review queue Write, queue only
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 9
=== PAGE 10 ===
The output is an ordered route and one sheet per stop. Each sheet lists the rules flagged, the measured distances,
the people exposed, the imagery, and the specific things to check on the ground, such as chimney type, fuel on
site and the distance to the nearest home.
Agent 2: Change triage
Runs automatically when a new Sentinel-2 scene has been processed. It compares the new detections with the
registry and sorts every difference into one of four groups: a new kiln, a kiln no longer detected, a possible
conversion to zigzag, or a low-confidence detection. Each item goes to the review queue with its reason and its
before and after imagery. A reviewer approves or rejects it, and the registry changes only on approval.
Agent 3: Resident assistant
A resident enters an address or drops a pin, in Hindi or English. The assistant shows flagged kilns in range, explains
each rule in plain language, shows the evidence, and drafts a complaint with that evidence attached. It always
describes a kiln as flagged by satellite and pending inspection. It never calls a kiln illegal.
Guardrails
Three independent layers keep the agents inside their role. Each one would be enough on its own to stop an agent
from changing a kiln's status.
Layer How it works
Tool permissions Every agent tool is read-only except queue_for_review. No tool can change a kiln's status.
Role policies Amazon Verified Permissions, AWS's managed service for Cedar policies, decides who can do what.
Residents read public fields. Inspectors record verdicts only in their own district. Reviewers
approve registry changes. Agents are explicitly forbidden from recording verdicts.
Citation check A deterministic validator reads every agent answer before it is shown. Any claim about a kiln must
cite a kiln_id and a rule_id that exist in the registry. Answers that fail are rejected and regenerated.
permit (principal in Role::"Inspector", action == Action::"RecordVerdict", resource)
when { resource.district == principal.district };
forbid (principal is Agent, action == Action::"RecordVerdict", resource);
Why this design
Language models are good at planning, summarising and explaining. They are not a source of truth about
distances or the law. KilnWatch keeps the facts in code and data, and gives agents only the jobs where language
helps. Every answer an agent gives can be traced to a measurement, a rule and an image.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 10
=== PAGE 11 ===
SECTION 04
AWS
KilnWatch is built on AWS from the first byte. The satellite imagery and population data are
AWS open datasets. The pipeline, the model, the agents and the apps all run on AWS services.
TRAINING
once, offline
SentinelKilnDB (Kaggle)
114,300 labelled tiles
SageMaker training
YOLO11-OBB, 1 GPU
best.pt
STORE
Amazon S3
evidence, weights
OPEN DATA ON AWS
Sentinel-2 L2A
COGs, us-west-2
HRSL population
Meta, us-east-1
OpenStreetMap
schools, rivers, roads
Rules (JSON)
versioned, cited
PIPELINE
SNS: new scene published
Lambda: area + cloud filter
Step Functions
1 Fetch, tile, normalise
2 Detect (YOLO11-OBB)
3 Merge + georeference
4 Rules engine
5 Triage agent
RDS + PostGIS
kiln registry, queue
Every write carries
kiln_id + rule_id
Kaggle GPU is the
fallback while quota
is pending
SERVE
API Gateway + Lambda
REST + agent endpoints
Cognito
sign-in, roles
Verified Permissions
Cedar policies
Bedrock + Strands
three agents
Location Service
route distances
CloudFront + Amplify
imagery, portal
CLIENTS
Inspector app
iOS, SwiftUI + MapKit
Resident portal
web, Amplify Hosting
Review console
web, reviewers only
System architecture. Training happens once offline; everything below it runs on each new satellite scene.
How data flows
Ingestion. Earth Search publishes an SNS message for every new Sentinel-2 scene. A Lambda function keeps only
scenes that cover our area with under 1 percent cloud, then starts a Step Functions workflow.
Processing. The workflow reads the imagery straight from S3, cuts and normalises patches, runs the detector on a
Fargate task or a SageMaker endpoint, merges overlapping boxes, converts them to map polygons, runs the rules
engine, and finally calls the triage agent to queue any changes for review.
Storage. Patches, evidence images and model weights live in S3. The kiln registry and the review queue live in RDS
PostgreSQL with PostGIS, which answers distance questions such as "every school within 1 km of this kiln" in a
single query.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 11
=== PAGE 12 ===
Serving. API Gateway and Lambda expose the registry and the agents. Cognito handles sign-in, Verified
Permissions enforces roles, Bedrock runs the agent models, Location Service provides road distances for routing,
and CloudFront and Amplify serve imagery and the web portal.
Services
Layer Service Role in KilnWatch
Ingestion SNS, Lambda React to new satellite scenes and filter by area and cloud cover
Orchestration Step Functions Run the five processing steps in order, with retries
Model SageMaker Train the detector; optionally host it as an endpoint
Compute Fargate Run detection and the rules engine as containers
Storage S3; RDS PostgreSQL + PostGIS Imagery, evidence and weights; the kiln registry and review
queue
Agents Bedrock; Strands Agents SDK Models and the framework for the three agents
Access Cognito; Verified Permissions Sign-in; Cedar policies for residents, inspectors, reviewers and
agents
Maps Location Service Road distance matrices for inspection routes
Delivery API Gateway; CloudFront; Amplify
Hosting
APIs, evidence images and the resident portal
Operations CloudWatch Logs, metrics and alarms for the pipeline
Open data on AWS
Dataset Location Notes
Sentinel-2 L2A (Collection 1) s3://e84-earth-search-sentinel-data,
us-west-2. STAC API:
earth-search.aws.element84.com/v1,
collection sentinel-2-c1-l2a
Public, no account needed. An SNS topic
announces new scenes.
High Resolution Population
Density (Meta, CIESIN)
s3://dataforgood-fb-data/hrsl-cogs/, us-east-1 CC BY 4.0. Includes layers for children
under 5 and adults over 60.
OpenStreetMap, northern
India
Geofabrik extract, copied to our S3 ODbL. Schools, hospitals, rivers,
railways, highways, orchards.
Deployment notes
Compute runs in us-west-2, next to the Sentinel-2 bucket, so imagery is read without cross-region transfer. The
population layer lives in us-east-1, so we clip it to our area once and keep the clipped copy in our own bucket.
Training needs a GPU for a few hours; inference, the rules engine and the API are CPU-only and fit comfortably in
the free tier and starter credits.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 12
=== PAGE 13 ===
SECTION 05
Portal and app
Three surfaces sit on top of the same registry: an iOS app for inspectors, a public web portal for
residents, and a review console for the people who approve changes.
Inspector app (iOS)
A native SwiftUI app with MapKit, built for a day in the field. It works from the route the planner agent produced,
shows the evidence for each stop, and records the verdict with photos.
Today · Hapur
KW-0412 FCBK · 0.82
Ask KilnWatch
Plan tomorrow in
Hapur. Six hours.
Schools first.
search_kilns 214 flagged
get_evidence 9 kilns
plan_route 9 stops
inspection_sheet x9
Nine stops ranked by
people exposed. Four
are within 1 km of a
school. Sheets are
ready for each stop.
Record verdict
KW-0412 · stop 1 of 9
Confirmed violation
Compliant
Not a kiln
Closed / not firing
2 photos · geotagged
5
4
2
3
1
2024 Oct 2026
Flagged rules
C-HAB-800 410 m vs 800 m
UP-SCH-1K 620 m vs 1,000 m
1 KW-0412 6,240 people
C-TECH-10K FCBK vs zigzag
2 KW-0388 4,910 people
3 KW-0451 3,120 people
Start route
Within 800 m
6,240 people · 710 under 5
Flagged by satellite,
pending inspection
Inspector app screens. Kiln IDs, distances and counts shown are illustrative.
Ask about any kiln…
Note: chimney fixed, coal on site
Submit verdict
Screen What it shows
Today The day's route on a map with numbered stops, each ranked by people exposed and rules broken
Kiln card Before and after imagery, kiln type and confidence, every flagged rule with measured distance
against the threshold, and the people living within 800 m
Ask A conversation with the planner agent, with each tool call shown so the inspector can see how an
answer was built
Record verdict Confirmed violation, compliant, not a kiln, or closed, with geotagged photos and a note. This is the
only way a kiln's status changes.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 13
=== PAGE 14 ===
Resident portal (web)
A public page, served from Amplify Hosting, that answers one question: is there a kiln near me that breaks the
rules? No sign-in is needed to look. The resident assistant drafts a complaint from the same evidence.
kilnwatch portal / check my area
Kilns shown here are flagged by satellite and pending inspection. A flag is not a finding.
Pilkhuwa, Hapur · drop a pin
2 flagged kilns within 1 km
800 m
KW-0412 410 m from you
Too close to homes (800 m rule)
You
KW-0433 760 m from you
Too close to a school (1 km rule)
Draft a complaint with evidence
Resident portal. The dashed ring is the 800 m buffer from the resident's location. Data shown is illustrative.
Every flagged kiln is labelled as flagged by satellite and pending inspection. The portal shows evidence and rules,
never accusations.
Review console (web)
A small internal page for reviewers. It lists everything the triage agent has queued: new kilns, kilns no longer
detected, possible conversions to zigzag and low-confidence detections. Each item shows before and after
imagery and the agent's reason. Reviewers approve or reject; approved items update the registry, and rejected
detections are saved as hard negatives for the next training run.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 14
=== PAGE 15 ===
The kiln record
Every surface reads the same record. It is the contract between the model, the rules engine, the agents and the
apps.
Field Meaning
kiln_id Stable identifier, for example KW-0412
footprint Oriented polygon in latitude and longitude, plus centroid
type, type_confidence FCBK, CFCBK or Zigzag, with the model's confidence in the type
detection_confidence The model's confidence that a kiln exists here
first_seen, last_seen Dates of the first and latest scenes with a detection
violations[] rule_id, measured distance, threshold, legal source, evidence link
exposure People within 800 m, children under 5, adults over 60
status flagged, confirmed, compliant, not_a_kiln or closed. Changed only by a verdict or an
approved review.
evidence Links to before and after image patches on CloudFront
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 15
=== PAGE 16 ===
APPENDIX
Sources
1 Mondal, Parab, Kubadia, Dubey, Junagade, Patel, Batra. SentinelKilnDB: A Large-Scale Dataset and Benchmark for OBB
Brick Kiln Detection in South Asia Using Satellite Imagery. NeurIPS 2025, Datasets and Benchmarks Track.
github.com/rishabh-mondal/SENTINELKILNDB_NeurIPS_2025
2 IIT Gandhinagar Sustainability Lab. Space to Policy: Scalable Brick Kiln Detection and Automatic Compliance
Monitoring with Geospatial Data. arXiv 2412.04065. Source of the 8 percent, 70 percent and 30.66 million figures and
the compiled siting rules.
3 Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Environment (Protection) Amendment Rules, 2022, standards
and siting criteria for brick kilns.
4 Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR. Operation Clean Air special inspection drive of industries in Hapur,
16 September 2026. caqm.nic.in
5 Registry of Open Data on AWS. Sentinel-2 Cloud-Optimized GeoTIFFs and the Earth Search STAC API (Element 84).
registry.opendata.aws/sentinel-2-l2a-cogs
6 Registry of Open Data on AWS. High Resolution Population Density Maps and Demographic Estimates, Meta and
CIESIN. registry.opendata.aws/dataforgood-fb-hrsl
7 Ultralytics YOLO11, oriented bounding box detection. docs.ultralytics.com
8 Strands Agents SDK. github.com/strands-agents
9 Amazon Verified Permissions and the Cedar policy language. cedarpolicy.com
SentinelKilnDB is licensed CC BY-NC 4.0. KilnWatch uses it for non-commercial work and credits its authors.
KilnWatch Concept, model, agents and platform 16
